update misc/hill-climbing (#61)
OI-wiki/i18n: docs/misc/hill-climbing.md

## Introduction

The hill climbing algorithm is a method of local selection. It uses a heuristic method and is an improvement to DFS. It uses feedback information to help generate solution decisions.

Frankly speaking, when the optimal solution cannot be reached directly, but it is possible to determine which of the two solutions is better, a new possible solution is generated based on some feedback information.

> Therefore, the hill climbing algorithm searches for a new solution near the currently found optimal solution $x$ each time. If this new $x'$ is better, then transfer to $x'$ , otherwise it remains unchanged.

Reviewer: move to

This algorithm is obviously feasible for unimodal functions.

> Joke time:
> Q: Now that it is a unimodal function, why not use ternary search?

> > A：In many years of OI, I have realized that human beings have their limits, no matter how scheming they are. The state is always unrepresentable. We can never get the mind of the people who create the problem and the boundary written is always wrong -- so -- I won't use ternary search anymore JOJO!

Reviewer: JOJO 可以删了？:new_moon_with_face:
另外单峰函数的翻译有没有 ref 鸭

Author: 🉑️ 🌚 

ref是[standford slides](https://web.stanford.edu/group/sisl/k12/optimization/MO-unit2-pdfs/2.1intro.pdf) & [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unimodality) & [geeks for geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/mathematics-unimodal-functions-bimodal-functions/)

> A unimodal function has only one minimum and the rest of the graph goes up from there; or one maximum and the rest of the graph goes down.

> Unimodal Function :
> A function f(x) is said to be unimodal function if for some value m it is monotonically increasing for x≤m and monotonically decreasing for x≥m. For function f(x), maximum value is f(m) and there is no other local maximum.

Reviewer: > 🉑️ 🌚
> 
> ref是[standford slides](https://web.stanford.edu/group/sisl/k12/optimization/MO-unit2-pdfs/2.1intro.pdf) & [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unimodality) & [geeks for geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/mathematics-unimodal-functions-bimodal-functions/)
> 
> > A unimodal function has only one minimum and the rest of the graph goes up from there; or one maximum and the rest of the graph goes down.
> 
> > Unimodal Function :
> > A function f(x) is said to be unimodal function if for some value m it is monotonically increasing for x≤m and monotonically decreasing for x≥m. For function f(x), maximum value is f(m) and there is no other local maximum.

好的 :+1:

> Seriously speaking, the advantage of the hill climbing algorithm is that when you don’t know how to write formal solutions (commonly used in geometry calculation and mathematics problems), or there are many dimensions of its own state, and it is not easy to write divide and conquer (sample 2 can be completed by binary search), the optimal solution can be obtained through brute force.

Reviewer: many dimensions when representing a state
```suggestion
Seriously speaking, the advantage of the hill climbing algorithm is that when you don’t know how to write formal solutions (commonly used in geometry calculation and mathematics problems), or when there are many dimensions of its own state, making it hard to implement divide and conquer (sample 2 can be completed by binary search), the optimal solution can be obtained through brute force.
```

![](./images/hill-climbing.png)

* * *

## Implementation

Hill climbing algorithm generally introduces the temperature parameters (similar to simulated annealing). In analogy, the hill climbing algorithm is like a rabbit jumping on the hill when it gets drunk. It will jump toward the higher place it thinks (this is often just an inaccurate trend) every time. Obviously it may jump to the top of the hill once, or jump too far to the opposite side. But it doesn't matter, the rabbit will always jump back after turning over the hill. Obviously this process is very useless, the rabbit will never find a way out, so in this process the rabbit calms down and is more cautious every time it jumps, jumping a little less, in order to reach the right optimal point.

The process of the rabbit gradually becoming awake is the cooling process, that is, the temperature parameter will continue to decrease when climbing the mountain.

About cooling: The cooling parameter is a constant slightly less than $1$ , generally selected within $[0.985, 0.999]$ .

### Sample 1 [「JSOI2008」Spherical space generator](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P4035) 

> Problem: Given $n$ points in $n$-dimensional space, knowing that they are on the same $n$-dimensional sphere, find the center of the sphere. $n \leq 10$ , and the absolute value of the coordinate does not exceed $10000$ .

Reviewer: coordinates

> Obviously, the unimodal function can be solved by hill climbing. The algorithm of this question:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obviously, the unimodal function can be solved by hill climbing. The algorithm of this question is as follows:
```

1. Initialize the center of the sphere to the center of gravity of each given point (that is, its dimensional coordinates are the average value of the dimensional coordinates of all the given points) to reduce enumeration operations.

> 2. For the current sphere center , find the average of the Euclidean distance from each known point to the center of the sphere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For the current sphere center, find the average of the Euclidean distance from each known point to the center of the sphere.
```

> 3. Traverse all known points. Record a change value cans (record each dimension separately) for the Euclidean distance of each point. If it is greater than the average value, add the difference to the change value, otherwise subtract it. In fact, there is no need to check the size, as long as the absolute value is not considered, the coordinates can be directly calculated. This process can be transformed into a new center of the sphere pushing it back and forth, pulling it in the direction of the point when it touches a point too far away, and pushing it in the opposite direction when it touches a point too close.

Reviewer: > pulling it in the direction of the point when it touches a point too far away, and pushing it in the opposite direction when it touches a point too close.

{pull|push}ing it when it is too {far|close} to the center of sphere.

> 4. Multiply the recorded cans by the temperature, update the center of the sphere, and go back to step 2.

Reviewer: 这里 cans 用 $\mathit{}$ 包起来吧

### Sample 1 [「JSOI2008」Spherical space generator](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P4035) 

Problem: Given $n$ points in $n$-dimensional space, knowing that they are on the same $n$-dimensional sphere, find the center of the sphere. $n \leq 10$ , and the absolute value of the coordinates does not exceed $10000$ .

Obviously, the unimodal function can be solved by hill climbing. The algorithm of this question is as follows:

1. Initialize the center of the sphere to the center of gravity of each given point (that is, its dimensional coordinates are the average value of the dimensional coordinates of all the given points) to reduce enumeration operations.
2. For the current sphere center, find the average of the Euclidean distance from each known point to the center of the sphere.

> 3. Traverse all known points. Record a change value $\textit{cans}$ (record each dimension separately) for the Euclidean distance of each point. If it is greater than the average value, add the difference to the change value, otherwise subtract it. In fact, there is no need to check the size, as long as the absolute value is not considered, the coordinates can be directly calculated. This process can be transformed into a new center of the sphere pushing it back and forth, {pull|push}ing it when it is too {far|close} to the center of sphere.

Reviewer: 🌚

Author: 突然反应过来好像不是直接copy&paste 🌚 💦

          cin >> f[i][j];
          ans[j] += f[i][j];
        }
      for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) ans[i] /= (n + 1);     // initialization
      for (double t = 10001; t >= 0.0001; t *= 0.9999) {  // keep cooling down
        check();
        for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) ans[i] += cans[i] * t;  // modification
      }
      for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) printf("%.3f ", ans[i]);
    }
    ```

* * *

> ### Sample problem 2 [「BZOJ 3680」Balance point/KO XXX](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1337) 

Reviewer: :+1:

* * *

## Optimization

It is easy to think that we can climb the hill many times to get the best answers possible. Methods like this include modifying the initial state/modifying the cooling parameter/modifying the initial temperature, etc., and then create a global optimal solution to record the answer. After each hill climbing, the global optimal solution is updated.

> The problem that may exist in this processing is timeout. Please use handmade large dataset to test parameters during the OI competitions.

Reviewer: TLE

handmade 不是原文意思啊，是说 generate by your self 大概这个意思

```suggestion
The problem that may exist in this processing is timeout. Please use handmade large dataset to test parameters during competitive programming competitions.
```
